EHRENGARD
THE ART OF SEDUCTION
Please sit still, Your Grace.
I can't believe
that you don't need to rest a bit.
Did you straighten your dress again?
If so, it was not intended.
Please sit still.
Is something wrong?
My husband would have you beheaded,
if he saw you.
I got the impression that the Grand Duke
wanted me to… capture your beauty.
In that case, one can't be petty.
There.
Second thoughts?
I'm afraid I rather value my head's
position on my body, Your Grace.
I… I must ask you
to please sit up straight.
This is taking an eternity.
Indeed.
A true portrait takes time.
Yes, so I've noticed.
Like a seduction.
Mr. Cazotte.
Miss Zimmermann.
Mr. Cazotte!
-Rent is overdue. If you don't pay…
-My dear Madam.
Didn't I offer to sketch your portrait?
If you knew the value…
I don't want a drawing of myself.
I want money.
And it's on its way.
Trust me. It's coming.
Smile. It's a wonderful day. All is well.
Your Graces,
I am very honoured by the invitation.
Thank you for having me.
I am delighted. Most delighted.
Thank you.
Your Graces, I am overwhelmed
and honoured by the invitation. Thank you.
The painter.
I hope you are happy with the piece,
Your Grace.
A painter?
Beautiful, is it not?
It looks just like her.
But then again, it doesn't.
I know nothing about such things.
But if you say so.
Interesting. You said,
"But then again, it doesn't."
I believe that art
should be more than just lifelike.
Like a poem that one
can't always make sense of, but…
-What are you talking about?
-Apologies. My name is Cazotte.
I painted this portrait. Artist, painter,
man, etcetera. And you are?
I beg your pardon.
My daughter.
-Your daughter?
-Yes.
Mr. Cazotte.
You look glum.
Aren't you enjoying yourself?
Very much so, Your Grace.
Please tell me who you are gazing at.
Am I gazing?
Yes, you very clearly are.
You can tell me anything.
I am not jealous. On the contrary.
I delight in hearing about the passions
of others. In detail, please.
Actually, I did see a… young lady.
-Where?
-There.
Indeed, Ehrengard.
-Ehrengard.
-Yes, she is lovely.
Her father was my
father-in-law's aide-de-camp.
-A rather stern family.
-So I gathered, yes.
Did she like the portrait?
Was she spellbound by your talents?
No, you can't exactly say that.
Poor you.
But don't look so discouraged.
A young man recently told me
that it takes time, seduction.
Like painting a portrait.
Actually, that was my reason
for inviting you this evening.
A new portrait?
No, your talent for seduction. Come.
Do you remember my son?
-A handsome young man, Your Grace.
-Indeed.
We need your help.
-You do?
-Yes.
-Do you know the Act of Succession?
-I don't.
I thought as much. We are not firmly
seated on the throne, so to speak.
You do recall
that the former Grand Duke was childless.
-I don't, really…
-Just listen.
He was. And my husband
isn't a direct descendant.
It came to a feud over the throne
between the various cousins,
which my husband won in the end.
There you see one of his cousins.
Count Marbod. And Countess Orsyla.
Bah!
They're watching us like hawks.
Our problem is
that the Grand Duke is gravely ill.
-The doctors can't help him.
-I am sorry to hear, Your Grace.
Yes, it's heartbreaking.
My son stands to inherit the throne,
but he isn't married,
so he can't inherit it.
Maybe under different circumstances, but…
-You aren't firmly seated on the throne.
-Exactly.
And how am I to help, Your Grace?
Look at my son.
Look at the young Prince,
and the ladies around him. They flock.
But he barely looks their way.
Not even a smile.
A love life, eroticism.
It is of no interest to him.
-I see what you mean, Your Grace, but…
-But what?
Noble fruit is slow to ripen.
I already told you, we have no time.
Prince Lothar must find a wife soon,
or else the throne will be given to…
my husband's cousin.
It's all very confusing,
but those are the rules.
-Just to… Yes.
-You, Mr. Cazotte. Your task…
You are to arouse my son's passion.
His belle passion.
-I am?
-I cannot think of anyone more suited.
-I don't know if I am.
-Of course you are.
Name your price.
It's not a matter of money, Your Grace.
But I must insist
you are rewarded for your efforts.
Anything.
Use your imagination.
-Ehrengard.
-Ehrengard?
I'd like to paint a portrait of her.
Perhaps you could arrange that.
Very well.
I'll do my best.
-But you must tell me all the details.
-Naturally, Your Grace.
Keep the change.
Someone from the court will
pick up the remainder of my belongings.
Excuse me, my Lord.
My name is Cazotte. I am an artist.
I know your mother and I was just
taking a walk in the garden.
I mean you no harm, my Lord.
But when I saw you standing here,
it seemed to me…
Forgive me, but you looked
a little sad standing here.
-They want me to marry.
-Who?
My mother and father.
-Everyone.
-Oh my.
And… you don't want to?
No.
Because you want your freedom. Of course.
What if I told you, my Lord, that you,
with all due respect, of course…
have misunderstood something?
What you see… as a prison…
is actually a liberation.
Allow me to show you
some sketches, my Lord.
Love life.
Yes. Yes, that one is good.
See the poetry?
-You like that one. It's yours. Keep it.
-Yes.
I managed to gain the Prince's trust.
Your Grace, my honour forbids me
from revealing in detail
what I told him
during those days and nights.
Suffice to say that I piqued his
imagination to the best of my ability.
I remember reciting passages from both
"Decameron" and "The Canterbury Tales",
about the miller and the woman from Bath.
About the marvellous beauty
which can be found,
about silky rose petals,
swelling hearts intoxicated with blood,
and about lighting
a third candle with one's torch.
I proposed he go on a trip.
A trip?
To the castle in Leuchenstein.
I'm painting a family portrait there.
I'd like to bring the Prince,
introduce him to the daughters.
Not without your permission, of course.
But we already tried with Leuchenstein.
They're horrid. Utterly devoid of charm.
Not the youngest.
-Ludmilla.
-But she's just a child.
Time flies, Your Grace.
She turns 18 next week.
Indeed?
You know the family well?
I painted their portraits,
a long time ago, yes.
You only painted portraits?
Your Grace, what do you think of me?
Perhaps you ought not
set your expectations too high.
I have no expectations. But I do hope.
My Lord, I was thinking
that perhaps you could wear this.
And dress like a peasant?
No. As my apprentice. But yes, anonymity.
You can weigh up Ludmilla
without the burden of your title.
What is she like? She is like the rose
whose rich fragrance innocently
lures the passer-by to pick the flower.
But no one has picked it yet.
Close your eyes and picture the most
beautiful woman you can.
Her hand so firm and white.
The hips.
The knees.
The ankles.
Her velvet voice and her soft breath.
Are you ready, my Lord?
Good. Let's proceed.
Now, Your Graces,
I think that will be all.
We must however make one minor adjustment.
Princess Ludmilla,
you have bloomed with such speed.
In just two months since I was last here,
you are utterly transformed.
So if I could ask you to stay here
for a short while, alone,
I'd like to make some additions.
Mama, Papa, may I?
I am afraid I will have to ask you
to leave the room, Your Graces.
If I am to capture her unique beauty,
a certain detachment from her role
as the youngest is required, I'm afraid.
Come.
-We need the easel moved closer.
-Yes, sir.
Now, let's see.
-I'm blushing.
-Don't.
-Please don't paint my face red.
-I won't.
We'll go easy on the red.
Please lift your chin up a little.
That's it.
I must tell you, my Lady,
of my great fortune.
Never have I had such
a talented assistant as…
He has an artistic spirit
unlike any I have ever seen before.
And pardon me…
Isn't he handsome?
-Yes, he is very handsome.
-So handsome.
So handsome and with such a gifted soul.
He finds beauty where no one else does.
That's talent.
The very essence of talent.
It is so wonderful. In fact,
it was his idea to refine your portrait.
-Mm-mm.
-Yes.
-Mm-mm. No.
"You're not doing her justice."
-"She hides even greater beauty."
-He didn't say that.
-Truly?
-Yes.
And I had to agree.
-No.
-Yes.
But it's a shame.
It's such a shame that he is so shy.
But it's a characteristic
of most great artists, is it not?
-I don't know.
-It is. I can assure you it is.
-Where is he from?
-Where he is from?
He's of noble lineage.
Like yourself.
It is time to reveal
your true identify, Your Highness.
-Me?
-No, no. Well.
Please see to it
that the Princess is not disturbed.
And they disappeared
like two playful puppies.
No!
Come.
They walked the castle garden.
You are a genius, Mr. Cazotte.
Your son had the longing inside him
all along. I merely stoked it.
You have done our lineage a great service.
It has been my true pleasure.
-Please know that.
-Yes.
Indeed.
-What's that?
-I'm afraid I have to disappoint you.
-Disappoint?
-I spoke to General Schreckenstein.
It is out of the question
that you paint a portrait of his daughter.
Count yourself lucky I didn't mention
your name. He was rather incensed.
I see.
-Oh my, are you…
-No. Not at all, Your Grace. Not at all.
It's been my pleasure to help,
but you don't need to pay me.
-But the wedding.
-Yes.
My son's wedding. You have to accept
the invitation. I insist.
Accept these blessed
and consecrated rings.
Exchange them, and let them forever
be a symbol of the unbreakable pact
that you two have made
to each other today.
Ludmilla, in the name of the Father,
the Son and the Holy Spirit,
I take you to be my lawfully wedded wife.
Lothar, in the name of the Father,
the Son and the Holy Spirit,
I take you to be
my lawfully wedded husband.
The union that you have now entered into,
I legally authorise in the name of
the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
Everyone gathered here today
shall bear witness to the validity
of this unbreakable holy pact.
What God has joined,
let no man tear asunder.
Confirma hoc deus
quod operatus es in nobis.
Amen.
And… halt!
Mr. Cazotte. Pack your things
and come with us.
Your Grace.
Oh, there you are.
You seem upset.
An heir is on the way.
-Congratulations.
-No, not at all.
-Not at all?
-No.
The heir is due late May.
-Yes?
-Yes.
-That is in four months.
-Yes, I suppose so, yes.
Four months, not nine.
You laugh?
-Don't you see it's a scandal?
-Yes, Your Grace. Apologies.
God. God, the Lord, who is a great artist,
at times paints His pictures
to be appreciated from afar.
In 150 years, the predicament you now face
will seem like a pure idyll,
composed for the joy of spectators.
Now, you're too close…
Spare me this nonsense.
Sorry. I'm trying to say
that not one of your loyal subjects
would fail to smile in his heart
upon hearing of the matter that vexes you.
For everyone loves a pair of lovers.
I already told you how difficult it's been
to keep Babenhausen on our hands.
-Oh, because of cousin…
-Marbod.
Promiscuity may be acceptable
in your circles,
but in ours, it's a death sentence.
Prince Lothar will be disinherited
if it's revealed
that the child
was conceived out of wedlock.
-What will you do?
-No idea.
Your son and his wife
must be spirited away to a place.
Out of the public eye.
In hiding?
Yes. That should be possible.
-Yes, but why?
-To keep the people in the dark.
In the dark?
Yes, I've explained to you
how seduction can be a type of vocation.
Yes.
It should be possible to seduce
the masses in the same manner.
You talk a lot but say very little.
Are you aware of that?
In a way, I feel responsible.
You asked me to open your son's eyes
to the charms of the female sex.
His eyes, nothing else.
But, Your Grace…
providence has stepped in to help us.
We mustn't fall out of step.
I think I know a way to solve this.
First you and his Grace
must notify the people.
Esteemed citizens of Babenhausen.
The date for the happy event should be
announced to fall sometime in…
-…in the month of September.
-…September.
You will announce that Princess Ludmilla,
at the court physician's advice,
must keep to her bed for many months.
-She must live in utmost tranquillity.
-…tranquillity.
Utmost tranquillity? But where?
Well, it will be up to me to find a place
as desolate and secluded as possible.
Far away from the world.
To arrange everything harmoniously.
-You'll see to the decor too?
-Yes.
It is essential
that no one see Princess Ludmilla
until six months
after the child has been born.
I will stay for the entire duration.
To see that all goes to plan.
-Are you able to do this?
-Yes.
-Oh.
-Oh, now you are less sure.
No, Your Grace. It just dawned on me
that the Princess will need
a special lady-in-waiting.
Not one of the usual gossips
from this court,
but someone carefully chosen.
-Someone we can trust.
-Naturally.
She must be of such birth,
education and appearance
that it would justify her selection.
-Don't you agree?
-Yes, of course.
Furthermore, young and kind
as, during her seclusion,
the Princess will want a companion
of her own age and temperament.
And where are we to find a pleasant
young girl of the highest society
with the elevation of mind
and an unerring loyal heart…
You're doing it again. You talk and talk.
Pardon me. I just meant…
Do you know of such a woman, Your Grace?
Does anyone spring to mind?
-Ehrengard.
-My goodness. Of course.
-Well, you are just awful, Mr. Cazotte.
-What do you mean, Your Grace?
You intend to seduce her.
No.
You are right.
It is true.
I owe you the truth. As one of
the very few people I have met in my life
who understands the artist. You do.
Pardon me, but may I
introduce you to my thoughts?
Indeed.
I see her.
A young woman in a white frock,
daughter of warriors,
in whose world-view the arts,
the artist, have never existed.
And this is precisely why,
like Michelangelo, I exclaim,
"Within that block of marble,
my greatest triumph is hidden."
Michelangelo, block of marble,
warrior in a white frock aside,
the Schreckensteins are Lutherans.
A very stern race, as I already mentioned.
Practically Puritans.
All military people.
You won't get near her.
Maybe so.
-This time you've aimed too high.
-That may very well be.
But I do not doubt.
Then a wager may be called for.
A wager?
Ehrengard won't surrender to you.
And if I succeed?
If you win Ehrengard, I will offer you
lifelong employment at court.
Furthermore, I will offer you
an artist abode wherever you choose.
Then you can go about there,
rambling to your heart's content.
Against?
That you paint my portrait again.
And this time you will not reject me.
Very well.
The Grand Duke and I remember
your loyal service to his father.
It was the highlight of my early career.
The matter at hand…
you mustn't disclose to anyone.
Not even the Grand Duke.
But please tell me, how have you been
able to assess my daughter's qualities?
In all honesty, Mr. General, the honour
befalls my confidant in this case.
Mr. Cazotte.
I saw…
…that here was a…
…young Valkyrie.
Raised under
the strictest military virtues.
The only maiden
in a long line of warriors.
An almost incredibly suitable young,
white-hot angel
with her flaming sword
to guard the young lovers' paradise.
I get carried away.
I find Ehrengard's strength impressive.
And I see where it came from.
Stop this nonsense.
Anyway.
No Schreckenstein has ever
turned down their Duke.
Our entire family
is extremely grateful to you.
Ehrengard. Pack your things.
Of course, Father.
-Just one thing.
-Yes?
May I bid Kurt farewell?
Kurt?
My fiancé, Your Grace.
Of course you may
bid your fiancé farewell.
Thank you once again, Ehrengard.
It is my honour to serve my country.
You are a good girl.
Wouldn't you agree, Mr. Cazotte?
-Yes. Absolutely.
-Yes.
Sleep well, Ehrengard.
Sleep well, Your Grace.
Yes, sleep very well, Ehrengard.
Bonne nuit.
What a pompous charlatan.
-I have found a remote place.
-Yes?
Rosenbad.
-Rosenbad?
-Yes.
-It's been unoccupied for generations.
-Just so.
Welcome.
Our physician, Professor Putziger.
He'll stay here to keep an eye
on the Princess' health.
Our riding master, Mr. Podolski.
And of course our eminent chief
lady-in-waiting, Countess Poggendorf.
She's always been my most loyal
lady-in-waiting.
And Ehrengard.
But Ehrengard you know.
The best of luck to you.
That mirror needs polishing
when you have the time.
On to the entrance hall. Do keep
these doors shut to prevent a draft.
-Mr. Cazotte?
-Yes?
-May I ask you something?
-Of course.
Are you a…
Are you a court servant of sorts?
No. No, I am not.
I only serve the arts. I am a painter.
The entrance hall.
-Mr. Cazotte.
-Yes.
I remember where I first saw you.
-Yes?
-At the big ball.
You were standing by your portrait
of the Grand Duchess.
I do not recall.
I am usually good
at remembering faces, but…
not yours from that evening.
I didn't mean to offend you. But it…
Offend me?
Do as you wish.
And now wave! Wave!
And smile.
Oh, it is like a fairy tale.
I'm pleased to hear that.
I tried to create a place
where our Princess couldn't help
but bring a cupid into this world.
-Are those for me?
-Yes, they are.
-Thank you.
-Pleasure.
Cazotte.
Your Grace.
Our small court has quickly
settled into the romantic atmosphere.
And as for Princess Ludmilla and the
relationship with her new lady-in-waiting,
the Princess, heavy with the sweetness
of life, like a bee…
…like a bee on its way to the hive…
…is unable to see anything less
than a sister in her.
-Is it true that your fiancé is a soldier?
-It is true.
But you must be scared.
What if he is sent off to war someday?
That's what soldiers do.
I have taught him fencing.
Everyone in our family masters it.
In return, he taught me to fire a pistol.
Yes. Many times.
Do you want children?
As for our wager, Your Grace,
I must tell you in all honesty
that progress is slow
with very few advances.
Mr. Cazotte.
Ah, Ehrengard.
You are up early.
Yes. Well, I usually am.
Are you going riding?
-Pardon me?
-Are you going riding?
Want to join me?
-But if you want to ride alone…
-No.
No. No, it's fine… I think…
I think that should be fine.
Let me just think.
Sure, why not?
-Good morning, Mr. Podolski.
-Good morning, Mr. Cazotte.
-Can you ready my horse?
-Your horse?
Just give me the same horse as yesterday.
As yesterday?
Just any horse.
Yes, sir.
-Are you coming?
-Just go ahead. I'll catch up.
You're getting tired. Are you all spent?
Look.
It's alpenglow.
It is a rare interaction of the spectral
colours in the atmosphere.
Alpenglow?
Yes.
Alpenglow.
It's already disappearing.
Yes. Naturally.
It has revealed its innermost essence
and can now only annihilate itself. Boom!
A clear day will follow. It's a miracle.
No!
Do you think it might be possible
to have my own horse brought here?
Your own horse?
These horses are too good-tempered.
Yes. Indeed. And yours isn't?
His name is Wohtan.
Only I can ride him.
I can imagine.
Mr. Cazotte.
Mr. Podolski. What's the matter?
Someone's coming.
-So turn them away.
-I can't. It's the Grand Duke's cousin.
We're visiting the Princess.
I'm the Grand Duke's cousin.
Goodness. That's nice. But no,
I'm afraid the Princess has taken ill.
It's just a brief visit.
We have a basket of gifts for her.
You will have to come back another day.
-Or give it to me.
-Nice sausages.
The Princess' condition, as you can
imagine, prevents her from seeing anyone.
Are you turning me away?
-I'm but a messenger.
-I insist.
-Listen…
-Who do you think I am?
-I'm just…
-Move!
Marbod.
What a surprise.
We were in the vicinity. And…
We bring gifts from home for the Princess.
I'll see that she gets them.
She's terribly ill.
It's but a short visit.
It is contagious. She's quarantined.
-But…
-Goodbye.
Lothar. Dearest Lothar.
It's just a very short visit.
-Did you see his lies?
-Of course.
And that charlatan. Did you see his rags?
Pardon me for asking, but is it carnival?
We must remain close by.
We brought gifts for the residents of the
castle. But they don't receive visitors.
Do you know anyone employed
at the fine castle?
-I mind my own business.
-Hang on.
Perhaps you could reconsider your stance
a little more carefully?
We're going back to Babenhausen tonight.
Now you know where to find us.
Your Grace.
Another month has passed
and the birth is imminent.
I know that, given the nature
of the situation, you cannot visit us,
so allow me to pass on
some impressions from here.
Let me begin by bringing you
some happy news.
A stroke of luck has transpired.
I couldn't sleep
and decided to go for a walk in the woods.
Here I saw her.
And at once I realised
that the gods had granted me
a unique motif.
I was right and more than right
in my assessment of her beauty.
But it was something else.
The generosity of the gods
was even more inconceivable.
And I ask Your Grace not to see this
as explicit or think of me as a voyeur.
There was something picturesque about it.
The light, the forest lake,
the woman in the water,
the entire magical scenery,
it all cried out
to be immortalised in art.
And this painting
which I have been commanded to paint…
"Nymph Bathing in a Forest Lake."
Or "Diana's Bath",
would in itself be a wonder,
a glory, the crowning moment
of my career as an artist.
In what possible way can I more fully
make her mine than by capturing,
fastening and fixing upon my canvas
every line and hue of her body,
so that no one in this entire world
can separate the two of us ever again?
This piece requires patience.
So I wait.
I never touch her hair
or even brush her hand.
Instead, I approach her in other ways.
Wohtan. Hi.
Hi.
And so the days pass, Your Grace,
with tiny, cautious steps.
…for my heart.
-Ehrengard.
-Hi.
Thank you for the letter.
-I missed you…
-But we can't meet this way.
But why not?
I can't and won't tell.
I will be stationed here for three months.
Perhaps someday I can tell you everything.
Farewell, my friend.
Ehrengard! The waters have broken.
Not yet.
Mr. Podolski, send for the Grand Duchess.
-Where is the child?
-Your Grace.
First, the castle trembled with fear,
but when the first shrill cry rang
from the Princess' room,
it changed from cellar to attic.
Mr. Cazotte. Be honest.
Is he healthy?
He is the most beautiful child
to see the light of day in Babenhausen.
There you are. Let me see him.
Come.
-Come.
-Let me see him.
-Isn't he wonderful?
-Let me see.
Congratulations.
He looks like me.
He looks like Grandmother.
Is he not the most beautiful
little creature you ever saw?
Even I, Your Grace,
someone not prone to sentimentality,
am astounded by the fairness of the child.
I must say.
And Ehrengard.
How are you progressing with her?
She has for the first time,
without even knowing,
fallen in love.
So soon?
Not with me, Your Grace.
With your grandchild.
-Oh!
-Yes.
-Oh… Oh no.
So she has lost all interest in you,
Mr. Cazotte?
No, no, no. On the contrary.
It serves my purpose perfectly.
To fall in love with the god of love
himself may very well,
to a person of her collectedness
and energy,
be the first step on the road towards
total surrender, Your Grace.
I sense you are grasping at straws.
The figure of Cupid.
The embodiment of love.
The most fatal of dolls. Believe me.
Mama.
-Your coach awaits.
-Yes.
Leaving so soon?
The Marbods won't let me
out of their sight. Bah!
No one… Absolutely no one
outside this castle may see the child.
-Understood?
-Of course, Your Grace.
-And you, Lothar?
-Of course, Mother.
One last thing. We have found a wet nurse.
Her name is… Lisbeth. She's a local.
We will have her brought here.
-And she is reliable?
-Yes. We made inquiries.
Lisbeth, please come home sometimes.
How am I to care for myself?
-I made arrangements with the neighbour.
-Why do you have to live there?
You could come home from time to time…
Let go of the door.
-Lisbeth?
-Go!
Lisbeth? Can…
Lisbeth. Lisbeth!
Lisbeth!
-Are you coming?
-Yes.
-You took your time.
-I'm sorry.
I've made inquiries, but no news.
Rosenbad has been utterly quiet.
Then why send for us?
New events have unfolded.
-A drink?
-Please.
Yes. Well, unfortunately I only
have a very costly one left.
Then let's hope it is good.
-The court has employed someone new.
-Who?
A woman.
-And what else?
-A woman with small children.
How did you find out?
You see him? He is her husband.
He sits here every night in despair.
You should talk to him.
Pardon us.
What can you tell of Rosenbad?
It's all one big lie.
And now I've lost my wife.
She was to work at the castle
as a lady's maid.
As a lady's maid to a spoiled young lady,
and I was not allowed to talk to her.
But…
then…
No, I promised not to tell anything.
My good sir.
The Grand Duke is my cousin.
I command you to tell what you know.
There…
There's already a child at the castle.
I knew it.
We must write to your cousin.
Say that we demand to see them.
I miss her so. Can't you help me?
I have a task for you.
If you can get hold of the child,
you will get your Lisbeth back.
-Get hold of?
-Yes.
And to show our appreciation
for your heroic efforts,
I will personally make sure that you get
a very prominent position at the court
when my wife and I take over the throne.
Don't you think that would make
your Lisbeth happy? And proud?
Good.
This is what you need to do.
Mr. Cazotte.
-Ehrengard.
-You are up early.
Yes.
Indeed.
Yes, last night was the shortest
of the year.
Really?
-I didn't know.
-Yes. Truly.
And I always spend
the shortest night outdoors.
Outdoors? How come?
It is a kind of rite.
-A rite?
-Yes.
What sort of rite?
I am painting… I capture nature
in its most fragile moment.
-Fragile?
-Where it is at its most lush.
Before it once again surrenders
to darkness little by little.
It sounds rather sad.
-No, it's not. No. I enjoy it.
-May I see?
-The painting?
-Yes.
-I'd rather you didn't.
-I'm sure I'll find it beautiful.
-No. This painting is somewhat trivial.
-Trivial? I doubt it.
Yes, it is merely flowers
with their sweet petals,
nettles with their burning embrace,
the forest lake with its gentle caresses.
-It is but romantic drivel.
-The forest lake?
-What?
-Have you painted the forest lake?
Did I say the forest lake? No. I haven't.
-I'm just thinking out loud.
-Let me see it.
-No, I'm just thinking out loud.
-Yes.
-My hand.
Mr. Cazotte!
Mr. Cazotte.
The Grand Duchess is here. She wants you.
Pardon me.
They insist on paying a visit.
Who insists, Your Grace?
The Marbods.
-Can't we tell them no?
-No. Impossible. They are family.
I made sure they won't enter Rosenbad,
and hear the child.
-We'll have a picnic.
-When?
This Sunday.
-This Sunday?
-There's no way getting around it.
We must hide the child.
-And Ludmilla must be…
-Six months pregnant. A big girl.
Lisbeth is to stay here with the child,
and everyone else
must be carefully instructed.
Of course. I shall see to it, Your Grace.
Very well, Mr. Cazotte.
Please.
-Well.
-Yes.
And Ehrengard?
Well, as you know
I have painted her every morning.
And even though she hasn't necessarily
been aware of my presence,
my existence, I really feel as though
we've established a connection between us.
I know what you are thinking, Your Grace.
-Do you now?
-Yes, indeed.
Why doesn't that silly fool just
seduce the girl the old-fashioned way
and set his mind at rest?
-Am I right?
-More or less, yes.
But that silly fool is…
…an artist.
At this moment absorbed and intoxicated
by the creation of a masterpiece.
I insist on obtaining full surrender
without any kind
of physical touch whatsoever.
I could seduce the girl the old-fashioned
way and it'd be less difficult.
I could seduce her at a special moment,
where her soul is agitated, impulsive.
But, Your Grace, I simply feel
that it would not mean anything to me.
You sound like you have realised
that you cannot win our wager,
and now you want to alter the conditions.
By no means.
I still intend to seduce her, Your Grace.
It will happen. But the difference is
she will be the only one to know.
For others, Ehrengard will still sit
on her little pedestal,
a snow-white virgin,
but our souls will forever be connected.
And that is a true seduction.
And how are we to know
that the girl has been seduced…
-How to know who has won our wager?
-Precisely.
I will show her the painting
I've created of her,
and at that very moment, she will falter.
She will be the rose
that drops every petal
at a single breath of wind
and stand bared, Your Grace.
When one surrenders to passion,
the body will follow suit.
When she sees the painting,
she will simply… swoon.
She will swoon? Our Ehrengard?
In front of everyone, and that will be
the proof of absolute seduction.
I accept the new terms of our wager.
Should I ready your horse, Miss Ehrengard?
Lisbeth!
What is going on?
My good sir, wait a minute.
Why are you wandering around yelling?
He threatened me. He utterly confused me.
Now I've made a terrible mistake.
He…
He promised me I would get my Lisbeth back
if I helped him.
Your Lisbeth?
My…
My Lisbeth has been taken from me.
-Lisbeth has been taken from you?
-And now I have…
I've made a terrible mistake.
What mistake are you talking about?
The fine folk at Rosenbad
have lied about the child.
I've been tricked.
But…
Now I have to help.
In what way are you to help?
Tomorrow…
I am to steal a child and show it to them.
At two o'clock, I must go
to the clearing in the woods.
Now I'm wondering
if it's the right thing to do.
I have to talk to my Lisbeth first.
I don't think
Lisbeth will forgive me afterwards.
Listen.
Are you listening?
Proceed as planned.
Do you understand?
What?
Proceed as planned.
And keep Lisbeth out of it.
Everything will be fine.
Now go!
Where have you been?
-Everyone is looking for you.
-Here I am.
The picnic will begin in a moment.
All is prepared. Everything.
-Yes?
-Yes.
You look pale.
Are you feeling crestfallen?
No, no, no. All is good.
-And the cutlery?
-At the bottom.
We still need chairs.
Cazotte?
Ehrengard.
Apologies for not being at the lake today.
At the lake?
I've known all along you were there.
And I was only absent
because my presence was needed here.
I would like…
…you to finish the painting.
But I was thinking…
…we might do it in your chamber.
Perhaps you need to be a little closer.
Face to face.
Yes.
Naturally. Yes.
Yes, yes, yes. Absolutely.
-Are you able to picture that?
-Yes.
Close your eyes.
-Pardon?
-Close your eyes.
-Now?
-Yes.
And picture it.
Yes, I want…
Very well.
Prepare everything.
Ready the canvas.
I will be there after lunch.
-Yes.
Yes.
Yes, you'll be there after lunch.
Cheers.
Such a nice place, don't you think?
Dear Marbod.
It is our great pleasure to welcome you
and your dear wife.
It is a great pleasure…
Yes, I think you just told us.
Yes.
And I am pleased…
…that Princess Ludmilla is feeling
well enough to be with us today.
It is wonderful.
And that… the weather…
And now I won't say much more than that
it is a pleasure to bid you welcome.
The pleasure is entirely ours.
-Cheers.
-It is wonderful.
Cheers.
-It's a lovely wine.
-Yes, very.
It's light and sparkly.
May I have the crayfish?
Thank you.
-Crayfish?
-No, thank you.
Snap, snap.
We've been lucky with the weather.
-Not too hot or cold. Just right.
-Lovely weather.
-It is chanterelle.
-It is.
It is indeed.
The gold of the forest.
There, there.
No!
Matthias!
Wha… Ma…
No. You…
Sto…
-Delicious.
-Very delicious.
Yes.
This comedy has lasted long enough.
-Comedy?
-Please stay out of this.
Yes.
Dear Princess.
Allow us.
So full of life.
So soft.
It is very soft. One might think…
Apologies!
-Apologies!
-Matthias!
Here comes my good man.
What are you doing? Matthias!
Come, Matthias.
-Come, come.
-Stop!
Matthias, come. Come.
Matthias!
Go on, Matthias.
-Mat…
-Go on!
Matthias!
-What are you doing?
-Come on, go on.
Pardon me.
Matthias!
Matthi… Ma…
Matthias! Stop.
There, there. I know.
Matthias, stop!
Come.
No!
No, no, no!
-Stay. Eat, Poggendorf.
-Stop!
-Hold my hand.
Oh, Poggendorf.
Stop!
Mr. Podolski.
Ehrengard!
Ehrengard, wait!
Come on. Go.
Come on. Stop! Wait!
The coachman is gone.
Poggendorf, get in.
Your Grace, come with me.
-Quick!
-Help me get in.
For God's sake.
-Be quiet.
-You be quiet.
-Thank you.
-Go!
Come on.
Easy, easy, stop!
Come on. Go.
If I say it's on the right,
it's on the right.
-It's on the left.
-You foolish woman!
No. I said it's on the right,
so I go right.
Faster, faster.
I told you, the tracks lead that way.
Why won't you listen?
You!
Ouch, ouch, ouch!
Stop! That's enough!
What is going on?
So help me God, I am an innocent man.
It is very unjust of this woman
to attack me.
Well.
Nice try, dear cousin.
I don't understand.
This child…
is mine.
Yes, that is true.
This child is hers.
Say that again.
I shall say it again and again.
It is my child!
That is not true.
It is.
It is. Yes.
I can assure you it is.
Yes.
Ask Lisbeth. She will confirm.
That man is indeed her husband.
He kidnapped the child and its wet nurse.
-I followed them and found them here.
-That…
That is not true.
-It is.
Who is the father of the child?
I shall tell you.
Cazotte.
Yes.
Please send for a coach and have our child
brought back to Rosenbad.
That dandy!
Well. You must prove it.
Prove it?
How on earth should they do that?
Should we wait for him to grow older,
so we can see
if he takes after his father?
You are making a fool of us!
Proof!
I demand proof.
-Cazotte.
-Yes?
Show them your notebook.
-Your notebook.
-My notebook?
My note… Yes.
-Yes.
-It's necessary, apparently.
I would love to,
but I don't have it with me.
I don't have…
-You do.
-No.
Isn't it in your left coat pocket?
Yes.
Ehrengard.
Kurt?
-Not now. Not now!
-What about…
No.
Will that suffice?
There now. Come. Come.
There.
Come.
Tomorrow at dawn.
Kurt!
Come. Let's go.
-Would you like to choose first?
-No. You go ahead.
Very well.
Help him.
-Right.
-Here you are.
Are you ready?
Pardon me, but I don't understand
why we can't discuss this like adults.
Twenty steps. Or perhaps less?
Twenty steps.
Please consider…
One. Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
Nine.
Ten.
Eleven.
Twelve. Thirteen.
Fourteen.
Fifteen.
Sixteen.
Seventeen.
Eighteen.
Nineteen.
Goddammit, I've been hit!
I've been hit. I've been hit!
Stop!
Wait!
Ego te baptizo, in nomine Patris,
et Filii et Spiritus Sancti.
Quique dedit tibi remissionem,
omnium peccatorum ipse te liniat.
In vitam eaternam.
-Amen.
Peace be with you.
And with your spirit.
At long last, a little more
than a year after their wedding,
Prince Lothar and Princess Ludmilla
baptised their firstborn.
Deus omnipotens,
Pater Domini nostri Iesu Christi,
qui te regeneravit ex aqua
et Spiritu Sancto.
Here ends the story of Ehrengard.
For this occasion,
she wore across her white frock
the blue ribbon
of the Order of Saint Stephan.
An order given to noble ladies
in recognition of their service
to Babenhausen.
I was present, but received no order.
Yes.
Now.
Now!
I later went to Rome.
Here I received
many prestigious assignments
where I could further develop
my great artistic talent.
Grazie.
Furthermore,
my friends gave me my pseudonym.
They called me…
…Casanova.
Subtitle translation by:
Nicklas Rasmussen